# Lets-Plot documentation site

This repository contains sources for building and publishing the [Lets-Plot](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot) project [documentation site](https://jetbrains.github.io/lets-plot-docs) using [Sphinx](https://www.sphinx-doc.org) and [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com).

<a id="build-and-publish-documentation-site"></a>
## Build and publish documentation site

All commands should be run from the repository root.

1. Create conda environment `lets-plot-docs` from file environment.yml:

    ```bash
    conda env create --file ./environment.yml
    ```

    If you already have this environment or environment.yml has been changed, you need to update the environment. In that case, run:

    ```bash
    conda env update --name lets-plot-docs --file ./environment.yml --prune
    ```

2. Activate this environment:

    ```bash
    conda activate lets-plot-docs
    ```

3. Only for Windows users, run:

    ```bash
    conda install m2w64-toolchain
    ```

4. Install Lets-Plot Python package:

    ```bash
    pip install lets-plot
    ```

5. If the document source/\_shared/index\_body.rst needs to be updated, run:

    ```bash
    python utils/update_index.py -i %PATH-TO-README_PYTHON.md%
    ```

6. Build documentation (HTML):

    ```bash
    sphinx-build -b html ./source ./docs
    ```

7. Check docs/index.html in your browser.

8. Commit and push new changes.

## Directory structure

- data/ - constists of datasets for the demo notebooks.
- docs/ - source folder for the documentation site; generated by the `sphinx-build` command.
- jupyter_execute/ - provides executable code on the site pages due to the `jupyter-execute` extension; generated by the `sphinx-build` command.
- source/
  - \_ext/ - contains the custom Sphinx extensions.
  - \_shared/ - directory with ReST documents included in other places through the `.. include::` directive.
    - index_body.rst - body of the site index page; should be generated from the [README_PYTHON.md](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot/blob/master/README_PYTHON.md) document by using the `update_index.py` util.
  - \_static/ - standard Sphinx folder that contains custom static files (such as style sheets or script files).
  - \_templates/ - standard Sphinx folder for custom HTML templates.
  - gallery/ - gallery notebooks produced by the `sphinx_gallery` extension; generated by the `sphinx-build` command.
  - gallery_py/ - gallery examples as Python files produced by the `sphinx_gallery_jupyter` extension; generated by the `sphinx-build` command.
  - pages/ - static pages of the documentation site in the ReST format.
  - conf.py - Sphinx configuration file.
  - index.rst - source for the main page of the site.
- source_gallery/ - bunch of the jupyter notebooks - source for the documentation gallery.
- utils/update_index.py - util for preparation the index page of the documentation site; run `python utils/update_index.py -h` for details.
- environment.yml - list of the python packages used by the documentation; see [Build and publish documentation site](#build-and-publish-documentation-site) section.

## License

Code and documentation released under the [MIT license](https://github.com/JetBrains/lets-plot-docs/blob/master/LICENSE).
Copyright © 2019-2021, JetBrains s.r.o.